---
title: "Opening an Isetan Department Store in Paris, France"
date: 2020-03-11
tags: [data science, foursquare]
excerpt: "IBM Data Science Certification Capstone Project"

---

## 1. Introduction
Perfect for Paris and arguably the trendiest department store in Japan, the flagship Isetan Shinjuku is renowned for having its window displays created by leading artists and offers only the finest in food, clothing and homeware. Working from the bottom up, you'll find the 'beauty apothecary' on the second basement floor, food and travel items on the other basement level, and the other seven floors dedicated to ladies' fashion and homeware.

This project seeks to fuse the best of Japanese and Parisian shopping. Paris's fashionistas demand the best of the Fat East and bringing Isetan to Paris delivers.

#### Data Requirements
20 Arrondissements Municipaux or districts comprise Paris, France. Utilizing Foursquare data, the areas the the highest potential for ideally placing an Isetan department store emerge.

## 2. Workflow
1. _Data Outline:_  
  A. District data for Paris including names, location data if available, and any other details required.  
2. _Obtaining Data:_  
  A. Research and find suitable sources for the district data for Paris. 
  B. Access and explore the data to determine if it can be manipulated for our purposes. 
3. _Data Wrangling and Cleaning:_  
  A. Clean the data and convert to a useable form as a dataframe. 
4. _Data Analysis and Location Data:_
  A. Foursquare location data will be leveraged to explore or compare districts around Paris. 
  B. Data manipulation and analysis to derive subsets of the initial data. 
  C. Identifying the high traffic areas using data visualisation and tatistical nalysis. 
5. _Visualization:_  
  A. Analysis and plotting visualizations. 
  B. Data visualization using various mapping libraries. 
6. _Discussion and Conclusions:_  
  A. Recomendations and results based on the data analysis. 
  B. Discussion of any limitations and how the results can be used, and any conclusions that can be drawn.

#### Library Import
```
import numpy as np # library to handle data in a vectorized manner
import json # library to handle JSON files
import pandas as pd
!conda install -c conda-forge geopy --yes 
from geopy.geocoders import Nominatim # convert an address into latitude and longitude values
import requests # library to handle requests
from pandas.io.json import json_normalize # tranform JSON file into a pandas dataframe
```

__Matplotlib and associated plotting modules__
```
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import matplotlib.cm as cm
import matplotlib.colors as colors
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup
```

__Import k-means from clustering stage__
```
from sklearn.cluster import KMeans
!conda install -c conda-forge folium=0.5.0 --yes 
import folium # map rendering library
print('Libraries imported.')
```

#### Paris, France Data Import
Paris' 20 Arrondissements Municipaux or Districts (Data Provided by Open|DATA)

```
paris = pd.read_csv('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AR-data-science/Coursera_Capstone/master/Arrondissements_.csv')
paris
```

(Insert Output Photo)

#### Data Clean Up
__Column names__
```
paris.rename(columns={'NAME': 'Neighborhood ', 'CAR': 'Arrondissement_Num', 'Geometry_X': 'Latitude', 'Geometry_Y': 'Longitude',  'LAR': 'French_Name'}, inplace=True)
paris
```

(Insert Output)

__Removing Unnessary Columns__
```
paris.drop(['NSQAR','CAR.1','CARINSEE','NSQCO','SURFACE', 'PERIMETRE' ], axis=1, inplace=True)
paris
```

(Insert Output)

__Now that we have the dataframe ready, we continue to data analysis.__

# 3. Methodology and Exploratory Data Analysis
Check the dataframe's shape.
```
paris.shape
```

(20, 5)

#### Paris's Latitude and Longitude Determined by GeoPy Library

__Retrieve the Latitude and Longitude for Paris__
```
from geopy.geocoders import Nominatim 
address = 'Paris'
```
__Define the user_agent as Paris_explorer__
```
geolocator = Nominatim(user_agent="Paris_explorer")

location = geolocator.geocode(address)
latitude = location.latitude
longitude = location.longitude

print('The geographical coordinates of Paris France are {}, {}.'.format(latitude, longitude))
```

The geographical coordinates of Paris France are 48.8566969, 2.3514616.
